# analysis-of-pneumatic-recoil-systems

Pneumatic hobby rifles provide an enjoyable and relatively safe way of engaging with engineering, physics, and chemistry topics often associated with actual firearms. Although not identical, these penumatic rifles serve as a more approachable platform for performing data collection and alanysis on more demanding and complex systems. Compiling this data allows for the creation of a performance profile, enabling comparison and facilitating the ongoing development and improvement of a particular platform. Typically, manufacturers omit this information, leading consumers to rely on subjective and sometimes conflicting reviews. By attempting to quantify both subject and objective attributes of a platform, we aim to establish a benchmark that can serve as a reference for recomendations and troubleshooting. This data-driven approach strives to provide objective insights and valuable guidance for users, promoting transparency and informed decision-making.

The analysis of the gun will primarily be geared towards the kinetics and propellant efficiency of the system. The nozzle carrier group, or 'carrier', is the main pneumatic system responsible for controling the cycle and ultiamte performance of the rifle. The speed of this carrier and number of cycles its capable of can be used to quantify the shot efficiency, while recoil impulse can be used to quantify general kinetic performance. Together, this information gives insight into even more interesting and nuanced characteristics of the rifle.

Efficiency will mostly be measured in terms of number of shots per mass unit of propellant used. General performance is more subjective, and requires understanding of two common attributes given to pneumatic rifles. The first is snappieness, or sluggishness. This qualifier is generally used to talk about how fast the recoil is imparted to the user from the moment the trigger is pulled. Generally, the higher the recoil impulse and the faster its delivered, the better. The next is cooldown, a term used to describe the negative effects that follow execessive cooling of the propellant source from rapid firing and a general slowing down of the action. While we will be looking at these aspects seprately, its important to remember that these individual sub-systems are very closely tied together.
